README.md, before:

# Deprecated Tracker

> Find and manage deprecated code in your TypeScript projects

[![VS Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/VS%20Code-1.74%2B-blue.svg)](https://code.visualstudio.com/) [![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.0%2B-blue.svg)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

Ever stared at a massive codebase wondering which methods are deprecated? I've been there. This extension helps you hunt down all those `@deprecated` JSDoc tags so you can finally tackle that technical debt that's been haunting your team.

## What it actually does

This isn't just another regex-based search tool. Deprecated Tracker uses the TypeScript Compiler API to properly parse your code and find methods, properties, classes, and functions marked with `@deprecated` JSDoc tags. It shows you exactly where they are, lets you filter through the mess, and helps you manage what to ignore (for now).

Perfect for those moments when you inherit a codebase and need to figure out what's safe to use and what's not.

## Features

✨ **Smart Scanning** - Actually understands your TypeScript code, not just text matching  
📊 **Interactive Results** - Clean table view with clickable navigation (no more `Ctrl+P` hunting)  
🔍 **Powerful Filtering** - Filter by name or file to find what you need quickly  
🏷️ **Custom Tags** - Define your own deprecation tags beyond `@deprecated` (e.g., `@obsolete`, `@legacy`)  
⚙️ **Configuration Support** - Customize scanner behavior via `.deprecatedtrackerrc` or `package.json`  
🚫 **Ignore Management** - Hide items you're not ready to deal with yet  
📍 **Quick Navigation** - Jump straight to deprecated code with one click  
📥 **Export Results** - Export to CSV, JSON, or Markdown for reports and documentation  
🔄 **Rescan Anytime** - Re-run scans as your codebase changes  
📁 **Folder Scanning** - Scan specific folders or files instead of entire project  
💾 **State Persistence** - Your filters and settings survive VS Code reloads

## Quick Start

### Installation

1. Clone this repo
2. Open in VS Code
3. Press `F5` to launch the Extension Development Host
4. Open a TypeScript project in the new window
5. Run `Deprecated Tracker: Scan Project` from the command palette

### Usage

Once installed, just run the scan command and you'll see a panel with all deprecated items in your project. Click on any item to jump to its location in your code.

**Pro tip**: Use the filters to narrow down results when working on specific files or features. Way faster than scrolling through hundreds of results.

**Or even faster**: Right-click any folder in the Explorer and select "Scan for Deprecated" to scan just that folder!

## How to Use

### Running a Scan

1. Open your TypeScript project in VS Code
2. Press `Ctrl+Shift+P` (or `Cmd+Shift+P` on Mac)
3. Type "Deprecated Tracker: Scan Project", "Scan Folder", or "Scan File"
4. Review the results in the panel that opens

**Or even faster**: Right-click any folder or file in the Explorer and select "Scan for Deprecated"!

### Filtering Results

- **By Name**: Type the deprecated item name to see only matching results
- **By File**: Filter by filename or path to focus on specific files

### Ignoring Items

Sometimes you know about deprecated code but aren't ready to fix it yet. You can:

- **Ignore a specific method/property**: Click "Ignore [kind]" next to any item
- **Ignore an entire file**: Click "Ignore File" to hide all deprecated items in that file

Ignored items won't show up in future scans, but you can always manage them later.

### Managing Ignores

Click "Manage Ignores" to see everything you've ignored. You can remove individual ignores or clear them all at once.

### Custom Deprecation Tags

**NEW!** Beyond the standard `@deprecated` tag, you can now define custom tags that the scanner will recognize:

1. Click **"Manage Custom Tags"** in the settings panel
2. Add your custom tags:
   - **Tag Name**: e.g., `@obsolete`, `@legacy`, `@experimental`
   - **Label**: Display name in results
   - **Description**: What this tag means
   - **Color**: Color code for visual distinction
3. Enable/disable tags as needed
4. Tags are saved per workspace

**Default Custom Tags** (pre-configured):

- `@obsolete` - Code that's outdated and should be replaced
- `@legacy` - Old code maintained for compatibility
- `@experimental` - Unstable features that may change

**Benefits:**

- Categorize deprecation types
- Track different kinds of technical debt
- Custom workflows for different deprecation levels

**Example usage in your code:**

```typescript
/**
 * @obsolete Use the new PaymentServiceV2 instead
 */
export class PaymentService {
  // ...
}

/**
 * @legacy Kept for backward compatibility only
 * @param oldFormat The legacy format
 */
function processLegacyData(oldFormat: string) {
  // ...
}
```

**Note:** The scanner validates custom tags to prevent conflicts with standard JSDoc tags like `@param`, `@returns`, etc.

### Exporting Results

Need to share deprecated items with your team or track them over time? Export your scan results:

1. Click the **Export ▼** button in the results panel
2. Choose your format:
   - **CSV** - For spreadsheet analysis in Excel/Google Sheets
   - **JSON** - For CI/CD integration or programmatic processing
   - **Markdown** - For documentation and reports
3. Save to your desired location

**Alternative**: Use the Command Palette (`Ctrl+Shift+P`) and search for "Deprecated Tracker: Export Results"

## Configuration

You can customize scanner behavior by creating a `.deprecatedtrackerrc` file or adding a `deprecatedTracker` section to your `package.json`.

### Configuration Options

Create a `.deprecatedtrackerrc` file in your project root:

```json
{
  "trustedPackages": ["rxjs", "lodash", "@angular/core", "my-internal-lib"],
  "excludePatterns": ["**/*.spec.ts", "**/*.test.ts", "**/test/**"],
  "includePatterns": ["src/**/*.ts"],
  "ignoreDeprecatedInComments": false,
  "severity": "warning"
}
```

Or add to your `package.json`:

```json
{
  "name": "my-project",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "deprecatedTracker": {
    "trustedPackages": ["custom-lib"],
    "excludePatterns": ["**/*.test.ts"]
  }
}
```

### Available Options

- **trustedPackages**: Additional npm packages to whitelist (merged with defaults: rxjs, lodash, etc.)
- **excludePatterns**: Glob patterns for files to exclude from scanning (e.g., `**/*.test.ts`)
- **includePatterns**: Glob patterns for files to include (when specified, only these files are scanned)
- **ignoreDeprecatedInComments**: Whether to ignore @deprecated tags in comments (future use)
- **severity**: Severity level - `'info'`, `'warning'`, or `'error'` (future use for diagnostics)

### Configuration Priority

1. `.deprecatedtrackerrc` (if exists)
2. `package.json` with `deprecatedTracker` key (if exists)
3. Default configuration (if no config files)

## Requirements

- VS Code 1.74.0 or newer
- A TypeScript project with `tsconfig.json` in the workspace root

That's it! Works with any TypeScript project, regardless of framework.

## How It Works

Under the hood, this extension:

1. Reads your `tsconfig.json` to understand your project structure
2. Uses the TypeScript Compiler API to parse all your files
3. Walks through the AST looking for `@deprecated` JSDoc tags
4. Shows you what it finds in an easy-to-use interface

The scanning respects your TypeScript configuration, so it only looks at files that are actually part of your project.

## Development

Want to contribute or customize it? Here's how to get started:

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ and npm 9+
- VS Code 1.74+

### Setup

```bash
npm install
npm run compile
```

### Available Scripts

```bash
npm run dev          # Watch mode for development
npm run build        # Lint, format, and compile
npm run lint         # Check for linting issues
npm run lint:fix     # Auto-fix linting issues
npm run format       # Format code with Prettier
npm test             # Run tests
npm run test:watch   # Run tests in watch mode
npm run test:coverage # Generate coverage report
```

### Debugging

Press `F5` in VS Code to launch the extension in debug mode. A new window will open where you can test your changes.

## Known Limitations

- Requires `tsconfig.json` in the workspace root
- Currently supports TypeScript files only (JavaScript support planned)
- Scans for `@deprecated` JSDoc tags (TypeScript's standard deprecation mechanism)

## Contributing

Found a bug? Have an idea? Pull requests are welcome!

1. Fork the repo
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

MIT License - feel free to use this however you want.

---

Made with ❤️ for TypeScript developers who are tired of hunting for deprecated code manually

Commit message:

feat(scanner): add JavaScript support with jsconfig.json
- Implement config file detection for both tsconfig.json and jsconfig.json
- Add support for JavaScript file extensions (.js, .jsx, .mjs)
- Update error messages and documentation to reflect JavaScript support
- Add comprehensive tests for JavaScript/JSDoc functionality

README.md, after:

# Deprecated Tracker

> Find and manage deprecated code in your TypeScript and JavaScript projects

[![VS Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/VS%20Code-1.74%2B-blue.svg)](https://code.visualstudio.com/) [![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.0%2B-blue.svg)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

Ever stared at a massive codebase wondering which methods are deprecated? I've been there. This extension helps you hunt down all those `@deprecated` JSDoc tags in both TypeScript and JavaScript projects so you can finally tackle that technical debt that's been haunting your team.

## What it actually does

This isn't just another regex-based search tool. Deprecated Tracker uses the TypeScript Compiler API to properly parse your TypeScript and JavaScript code and find methods, properties, classes, and functions marked with `@deprecated` JSDoc tags. It shows you exactly where they are, lets you filter through the mess, and helps you manage what to ignore (for now).

Perfect for those moments when you inherit a codebase and need to figure out what's safe to use and what's not.

## Features

✨ **Smart Scanning** - Actually understands your TypeScript and JavaScript code, not just text matching  
📊 **Interactive Results** - Clean table view with clickable navigation (no more `Ctrl+P` hunting)  
🔍 **Powerful Filtering** - Filter by name or file to find what you need quickly  
🏷️ **Custom Tags** - Define your own deprecation tags beyond `@deprecated` (e.g., `@obsolete`, `@legacy`)  
⚙️ **Configuration Support** - Customize scanner behavior via `.deprecatedtrackerrc` or `package.json`  
🚫 **Ignore Management** - Hide items you're not ready to deal with yet  
📍 **Quick Navigation** - Jump straight to deprecated code with one click  
📥 **Export Results** - Export to CSV, JSON, or Markdown for reports and documentation  
🔄 **Rescan Anytime** - Re-run scans as your codebase changes  
📁 **Folder Scanning** - Scan specific folders or files instead of entire project  
💾 **State Persistence** - Your filters and settings survive VS Code reloads

## Quick Start

### Installation

1. Clone this repo
2. Open in VS Code
3. Press `F5` to launch the Extension Development Host
4. Open a TypeScript project in the new window
5. Run `Deprecated Tracker: Scan Project` from the command palette

### Usage

Once installed, just run the scan command and you'll see a panel with all deprecated items in your project. Click on any item to jump to its location in your code.

**Pro tip**: Use the filters to narrow down results when working on specific files or features. Way faster than scrolling through hundreds of results.

**Or even faster**: Right-click any folder in the Explorer and select "Scan for Deprecated" to scan just that folder!

## How to Use

### Running a Scan

1. Open your TypeScript or JavaScript project in VS Code
2. Press `Ctrl+Shift+P` (or `Cmd+Shift+P` on Mac)
3. Type "Deprecated Tracker: Scan Project", "Scan Folder", or "Scan File"
4. Review the results in the panel that opens

**Or even faster**: Right-click any folder or file in the Explorer and select "Scan for Deprecated"!

### Filtering Results

- **By Name**: Type the deprecated item name to see only matching results
- **By File**: Filter by filename or path to focus on specific files

### Ignoring Items

Sometimes you know about deprecated code but aren't ready to fix it yet. You can:

- **Ignore a specific method/property**: Click "Ignore [kind]" next to any item
- **Ignore an entire file**: Click "Ignore File" to hide all deprecated items in that file

Ignored items won't show up in future scans, but you can always manage them later.

### Managing Ignores

Click "Manage Ignores" to see everything you've ignored. You can remove individual ignores or clear them all at once.

### Custom Deprecation Tags

**NEW!** Beyond the standard `@deprecated` tag, you can now define custom tags that the scanner will recognize:

1. Click **"Manage Custom Tags"** in the settings panel
2. Add your custom tags:
   - **Tag Name**: e.g., `@obsolete`, `@legacy`, `@experimental`
   - **Label**: Display name in results
   - **Description**: What this tag means
   - **Color**: Color code for visual distinction
3. Enable/disable tags as needed
4. Tags are saved per workspace

**Default Custom Tags** (pre-configured):

- `@obsolete` - Code that's outdated and should be replaced
- `@legacy` - Old code maintained for compatibility
- `@experimental` - Unstable features that may change

**Benefits:**

- Categorize deprecation types
- Track different kinds of technical debt
- Custom workflows for different deprecation levels

**Example usage in your code:**

```typescript
/**
 * @obsolete Use the new PaymentServiceV2 instead
 */
export class PaymentService {
  // ...
}

/**
 * @legacy Kept for backward compatibility only
 * @param oldFormat The legacy format
 */
function processLegacyData(oldFormat: string) {
  // ...
}
```

**Note:** The scanner validates custom tags to prevent conflicts with standard JSDoc tags like `@param`, `@returns`, etc.

### Exporting Results

Need to share deprecated items with your team or track them over time? Export your scan results:

1. Click the **Export ▼** button in the results panel
2. Choose your format:
   - **CSV** - For spreadsheet analysis in Excel/Google Sheets
   - **JSON** - For CI/CD integration or programmatic processing
   - **Markdown** - For documentation and reports
3. Save to your desired location

**Alternative**: Use the Command Palette (`Ctrl+Shift+P`) and search for "Deprecated Tracker: Export Results"

## Configuration

You can customize scanner behavior by creating a `.deprecatedtrackerrc` file or adding a `deprecatedTracker` section to your `package.json`.

### Configuration Options

Create a `.deprecatedtrackerrc` file in your project root:

```json
{
  "trustedPackages": ["rxjs", "lodash", "@angular/core", "my-internal-lib"],
  "excludePatterns": ["**/*.spec.ts", "**/*.test.ts", "**/test/**"],
  "includePatterns": ["src/**/*.ts"],
  "ignoreDeprecatedInComments": false,
  "severity": "warning"
}
```

Or add to your `package.json`:

```json
{
  "name": "my-project",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "deprecatedTracker": {
    "trustedPackages": ["custom-lib"],
    "excludePatterns": ["**/*.test.ts"]
  }
}
```

### Available Options

- **trustedPackages**: Additional npm packages to whitelist (merged with defaults: rxjs, lodash, etc.)
- **excludePatterns**: Glob patterns for files to exclude from scanning (e.g., `**/*.test.ts`)
- **includePatterns**: Glob patterns for files to include (when specified, only these files are scanned)
- **ignoreDeprecatedInComments**: Whether to ignore @deprecated tags in comments (future use)
- **severity**: Severity level - `'info'`, `'warning'`, or `'error'` (future use for diagnostics)

### Configuration Priority

1. `.deprecatedtrackerrc` (if exists)
2. `package.json` with `deprecatedTracker` key (if exists)
3. Default configuration (if no config files)

## Requirements

- VS Code 1.74.0 or newer
- A TypeScript project with `tsconfig.json` **or** a JavaScript project with `jsconfig.json` in the workspace root

That's it! Works with any TypeScript or JavaScript project, regardless of framework.

## How It Works

Under the hood, this extension:

1. Reads your `tsconfig.json` or `jsconfig.json` to understand your project structure
2. Uses the TypeScript Compiler API to parse all your TypeScript and JavaScript files
3. Walks through the AST looking for `@deprecated` JSDoc tags
4. Shows you what it finds in an easy-to-use interface

The scanning respects your TypeScript/JavaScript configuration, so it only looks at files that are actually part of your project.

## Development

Want to contribute or customize it? Here's how to get started:

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ and npm 9+
- VS Code 1.74+

### Setup

```bash
npm install
npm run compile
```

### Available Scripts

```bash
npm run dev          # Watch mode for development
npm run build        # Lint, format, and compile
npm run lint         # Check for linting issues
npm run lint:fix     # Auto-fix linting issues
npm run format       # Format code with Prettier
npm test             # Run tests
npm run test:watch   # Run tests in watch mode
npm run test:coverage # Generate coverage report
```

### Debugging

Press `F5` in VS Code to launch the extension in debug mode. A new window will open where you can test your changes.

## Known Limitations

- Requires `tsconfig.json` or `jsconfig.json` in the workspace root
- Supports TypeScript (`.ts`, `.tsx`) and JavaScript (`.js`, `.jsx`, `.mjs`) files
- Scans for `@deprecated` JSDoc tags (standard deprecation mechanism)

## Contributing

Found a bug? Have an idea? Pull requests are welcome!

1. Fork the repo
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

MIT License - feel free to use this however you want.

---

Made with ❤️ for TypeScript developers who are tired of hunting for deprecated code manually
